docs: Rest api docs. (#11)
dequelabs/axe-android: docs/Rest-API.md

> # Axe REST API

Reviewer: Overall, I think this document needs a lot more context. For example, a rest endpoint between what and what? What is the overall purpose of the spec? How about examples of what "arbitrary value" could be? What is the collection of results intended to cover: a scan of an entire app, a single element, multiple scans of individual elements,an entire app, multiple apps? How does a certain design make things easier for developers?

Author: If there's Context you feel your are lacking, given the fact that this doesn't exist yet, a quick call would be great! :)

> Documentation of the REST API that comes along with the Axe service.

Reviewer 2: >REST API [](start = 21, length = 8)

What REST verb is being documented here? It feels like GET, but the docs don't say. Also, what parameters, if any, should be specified by the request? For example, is the scan always the entire display or just part of it? What about multi-screen devices where different screens could potentially have different apps/views? The Android documentation says that Android doesn't support a "root" or "desktop" view, so would multiple apps require a collection of separate hierarchies?

## AxeResult

> This endpoint serves as a wrapper to collect all of the information from an axe run. 

Reviewer 2: >endpoint [](start = 5, length = 8)

The docs say "endpoint", then appear to describe the response of the REST API. Shouldn't this document include the information necessary to actually submit the request? Consider, for example, the GitHub API documentation, which include both sample requests and sample responses: [https://developer.github.com/v3/](https://developer.github.com/v3/)

### Motivation

- Provide access to results and context easily.

> - Avoid timing issues that come with multiple requests.

Reviewer 2: This is the only and only reference to timing in the entire document, and the comment seems incomplete as a result without something to at least provide a one-sentence summary of how the timing issues are handled. For example, what happens if I have a multi-threaded app that makes concurrent calls to this API? If one fails, what form will that failure take?

### Simplified Sample
```
{
  "axeContext" : { @AxeContext },

>   "axeResult" : { AXRL },

Reviewer: Does AxeResult include information on what app was scanned? I didn't find that anywhere in this doc. How about a link to the AXRL doc?

Author: AxeContext includes this information. A link to the AXRL doc is a good idea. I do not actually plan on hosting this here, I think it belongs elsewhere, and so this doc is inherently mildly incomplete.

Reviewer 2: Absolutely agree with Rob that this document is significantly incomplete without more information about the AXRL format

---
In reply to: [274424144](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-android/pull/11#discussion_r274424144) [](ancestors = 274424144)

  "axeConf" : { TBD by Framework }  
}
```

### Requirements

- Data points are collected at the same point in time, or as close as can be expected.

## AxeContext

Wraps data together that is needed to identify a particular View, with a particular screenshot,
for a particular device configuration.

### Motivation

- Collect View information in one place.
- Allow for direct correlation of screenshot and ViewHierarchy
- Easy developer debugging.
- Reproducability of results.

### Simplified Sample

```

> {

Reviewer: Should we include any meta data about the scan itself, e.g., version of Axe, duration, errors? This information can be useful for posterity.

Author: Hmm. My question is where does this belong. At this level, or one level up. Good idea though. We will add this.

  "axeView" : @AxeView,
  "axeDevice" : @AxeDevice,
  "axeEvents" : @AxeEvents,
  "screenshot" : "base64png data"
}
```

## AxeView

Serves up properties about the Accessibility Hierarchy of a particular view. 

### Motivation

- All motivations of AxeContext apply.
- Rule debugging.
- Simplified test case collection.
- Simplified false positive identification.

### Simplified Sample

```

> {

Reviewer 3: How will elements be identified in AXRL? It seems like a path-based approach would be possible with this view representation; what are thoughts about an ID for each node in the tree?

Reviewer: The DRY principle does not apply to documentation. Karan's question is valuable, and indicates information which is not readily apparent and which, at the very least, should be referenced.

Author: You're lacking context in which this document will actually be published. I understand your concern, if it's still a concern when this gets published we will address it then, for now, we should drop this conversation.

  "Arbitrary Property Name": "value1",
  "Arbitrary Property Name2": "value2",
  "children" : [
    {

>       "Arbitrary Property Name": "value3",

Reviewer 2: >"Arbitrary Property Name": "value3", [](start = 6, length = 36)

A comment more about the design than the document: A string to string mapping makes for excellent portability for the data generator, but horrible portability for the data consumer. For example, it's likely that Android, iOS, and Windows will have multiple overlapping concepts as properties, but with potentially different property names and/or data formats. In order to create a single viewer that can support all of the variants, we'll probably need to convert the platform-specific data into a platform-agnostic format to keep the view code sane

      "Arbitrary Property Name2": "value24"
      "children": []
    }, 
    {
      "Arbitrary Property Name": "value3",
      "Arbitrary Property Name2": "value24",
      "children" : []
    }
  ]
}
```

### Requirements

- The Arbitrary property names of the children are identical to the root. 

> - If a property is omitted from a child it is assumed to be present and NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a property is omitted from a child it is assumed to be not present or NULL.
```

- Arbitrary property names are NOT calculated, but are values present in the respective OS APIs.

## AxeDevice

Collect prescriptive information that helps identify what type of context various information 
was collected from.

### Motivation

- Identify device version and operating system.
- Provide metrics for screen size so view hierarchy can be correlated.

### Simplified Sample

```

> {

Reviewer: Should/can we include the device model? Sometimes the same OS can behave differently on different devices.

Author: This REST API is purposely designed to be very flexible. Particularly between iOS and Android. Any time a property is listed specifically it is required to be exactly that. Adding "model" to this would potentially create issues for iOS. 

What would you think about going with a non-structured "description" approach, which would include this information in a non-structured way for compatibility and clarity between the two frameworks.

Reviewer 2: Trying to parse meaningful data from non-structured data is something that I'd strongly suggest that we avoid because it's inherently brittle. In my experience, you can safely do only 2 things with non-structured fields:
1. Display them in the UI
2. Group by them in reports/telemetry

If we want the client to offer greater functionality (such as programmatically identifying this as a Samsung devices), then a dedicated field--even an optional one--is far more robust.

---
In reply to: [279103399](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-android/pull/11#discussion_r279103399) [](ancestors = 279103399)

>   "os": {

Reviewer 2: >os [](start = 3, length = 2)

You might want to include a property bag for platform-specific stuff that may neatly fit into the fields that you're defining here.

    "name" : "Android",

>     "version" : "8.1.0"

Reviewer 2: >8.1.0 [](start = 17, length = 5)

Is this field structured? If so, please define the structure. If not, see my previous comments about the limited usefulness of unstructured data.

  },

>   "screen" : {

Reviewer 2: >screen [](start = 3, length = 6)

How will multi-screen devices be represented?

    "height" : 1920,
    "width" : 1080,
    "dpi": 2.625
  }
}

```

### Requirements

> - Property names match the above exactly.

Reviewer 2: >Property names [](start = 2, length = 14)

Are property names case sensitive?

> ## AxeEvents

Reviewer: If this section is intended to imply multiple scans per session, timing information, or at least some type of corelation between scan results and events will be necessary. Is this also intended to imply that scans may be run based on events?

Author: No, events are intended to mean `Accessibility Events` for **Android** and `Accessibility Notifications` for **iOS**.

Along with a view hierarchy modern Operating Systems communicate with Assistive Technologies through

> events. Should contain events since the last Screen Changed event.

Reviewer 2: >Screen Changed [](start = 45, length = 14)

The calls to the API and the Screen Changed events appear to be completely unrelated streams. I'm not seeing the value of this feature unless there's at least a way to join the two streams chronologically.

### Motivation

> - Similar motivations to AxeView, but applied to the event stream.

Reviewer 2: >stream [](start = 59, length = 6)

Hopefully there will be a way to filter the events that get inserted into the stream? On Windows, for example, we only register event handlers when requested, for performance reasons.

- Collect dynamic information about the view and how its evolving.

> ### Simplified Sample

Reviewer 2: >Sample [](start = 15, length = 6)

Some things (like timing and perhaps the hash of the item associated with the event) seem pretty universal here, and I wonder if they ought to be promoted to first-class citizens, instead of being an optional item in a property bag.
